# BlockClock

This is a simple assignment for a 3rd year HCI (Human-Computer Interaction) class which is meant to make students think outside of the box and come up with a design for a clock which is not based upon the familiar digital or analog formats. It was meant to be created as an Android app. To use this code, make a new project, then paste this code in the  `app/src/main` folder and update the AndroidManifest.xml file and `package` definitions in the .java files, as well as the paths found inside the `layout/activity_main.xml` file. Alternatively, when creating the new project call it "BlockClock" and use "gerrit.example.com" as the company domain name. If you create the project with these settings, you can simply paste the files into that folder without needing to change any definitions.

# Explanation of Design

## Usability requirements:
1. It should be relatively easy to see how much time has passed compared to the total amount of time in a day.
    * The blocks which represent time that has passed will be filled with a solid and vibrant color, while the blocks which have yet to be filled as the day progresses will be filled with a light version of the same color, making it easy to see where the spaces that are as yet unfilled are. 6-hour blocks will be combined, making them easier to count in larger quantities. When two 6-hour blocks of time have passed, they will be combined into one so that 12-hour PM time can be read simply by counting the blocks of time after the first big one. 10-minute blocks of minutes and seconds will be combined as well for the same reason. Read the notes on the sketch however—it will likely be better to group the hours into blocks of 5 rather than 6 because we are more used to tallying things that way, even though 6 is a nicer number for dealing with time. If this route is taken, a light border should be drawn around each group of 5 lightly (or partially) filled spaces to make it more clear that they will be combined at some point once they are all filled. In fact, this would be a good choice either way, and for the minute and second groupings as well. All blocks will have some space or perhaps an appropriately contrasting border between them so that the divisions are apparent.
2. It should still be easy to see how many seconds or minutes have passed, without making it impossible to tell the difference between seconds, minutes, and hours. They should all be described by slightly different means so that it is easy to tell between them.
    * How it meets the requirements: Hour blocks are slightly larger than minute blocks, which are slightly larger than second blocks. Still, they are not to scale because that would make the minutes and seconds too hard to read. Therefore, I made them slightly larger to still make them distinguishable while leaving them easy to read. I will also make them different colors to add contrast, as well as clear titles. More “exciting” colors will be used for hours than for seconds, with minutes somewhere in between, to make the larger units of time pop out more to the user. Clear titles will also exist to make sure that users can easily see should they be unsure. What I’m trying to do with this interface is give a quick and easy way to determine approximate time relative to the total amount of time in a day. However, it makes it harder to tell the exact time. I could also consider adding a strip of numbers along the bottom to make it easy to see the exact time (I’m not sure if this comes too close to a digital clock—please give feedback on this). 

## User experience requirements:
1. Enjoyable
    * How it meets the requirements: Animations as time goes on adds an experience of enjoyment because action is seen. It is enjoyable to see how the spaces slowly fill up as time goes on and to watch blocks combining and all of the filled spaces transferring to a different space when 60 seconds (or minutes) are reached.
2. Cognitively Stimulating
    * How it meets the requirements: It is cognitively stimulating in a way that meets the fine balance between overstimulation and boredom. This interface allows users to be relatively engaged whenever they use it, including allowing them to make the choice of how to use it—in the sense that it can be used at a glance to very quickly give a general idea of how far the day has progressed, as well as providing a visually accurate representation of how much time has passed in case the user wants to put in that bit of extra effort to determine the exact time. Still, once someone is relatively accustomed to the interface, it doesn’t take that much cognitive effort to read the exact time.
3. (Helpful)
    * How it meets the requirements: One can see the progression of time and compare it to the full amount of time in an entire day (through lightly colored spaces that are yet to be filled as time goes on) and it allows for a visual idea of how far one is through the day.
